RFC Improve saved object migrations algorithm (#84333)
elastic/kibana: rfcs/text/0013_saved_object_migrations.md

2. If the source is a < v6.5 `.kibana` index or < 7.4 `.kibana_task_manager`
   index prepare the legacy index for a migration:
   1. Mark the legacy index as read-only and wait for all in-flight operations to drain (requires https://github.com/elastic/elasticsearch/pull/58094). This prevents any further writes from outdated nodes. Assuming this API is similar to the existing `/<index>/_close` API, we expect to receive `"acknowledged" : true` and `"shards_acknowledged" : true`. If all shards don’t acknowledge within the timeout, retry the operation until it succeeds.
   2. Create a new index which will become the source index after the legacy
      pre-migration is complete. This index should have the same mappings as
      the legacy index. Use a fixed index name i.e `.kibana_pre6.5.0_001` or
      `.kibana_task_manager_pre7.4.0_001`. Ignore index already exists errors.
   3. Reindex the legacy index into the new source index with the

>       `convertToAlias` script if specified. Use `wait_for_completion: false`

Author: Yes, it's deterministic, we're just appending the `type` infront of the existing ID to make it SO compatible.

>       `convertToAlias` script if specified. Use `wait_for_completion: false`

Reviewer: Would it be advantageous to only use reindexing when there is a migration with `convertToAlias` script that needs to be applied?

My understanding is that index cloning had some significant performance advantages for larger indices. This performance difference could be important as we try to accommodate more use cases in the SO index (eg. SIEM exception lists)

>       `convertToAlias` script if specified. Use `wait_for_completion: false`

Author: The reindex will only be applied once when a user upgrades from a legacy index and after that we'll always be able to clone the index. So this really only affects users the first time they upgrade from < 6.5 and won't have a future impact when in later versions our indices start growing.

It's possible to make this optimization, but it makes the algorithm somewhat more complex so it feels like the simplicity and consistency is worth it for the relatively small performance impact.

      to run this as a task. Ignore errors if the legacy source doesn't exist. 
   4. Wait for the reindex task to complete. If the task doesn’t complete
      within the 60s timeout, log a warning for visibility and poll again.
      Ignore errors if the legacy source doesn't exist.
   5. Delete the legacy index and replace it with an alias of the same name
      ```
      POST /_aliases
      {
        "actions" : [
            { "remove_index": { "index": ".kibana" } }

>             { "add":  { "index": ".kibana_pre6.5.0_001", "alias": ".kibana" } },

Author: I don't think the order matters, both operations need to succeed or both fail. But just felt like this order makes it easier to read since we only want to add the alias if remove_index succeeds.

5. Mark the source index as read-only and wait for all in-flight operations to drain (requires https://github.com/elastic/elasticsearch/pull/58094). This prevents any further writes from outdated nodes. Assuming this API is similar to the existing `/<index>/_close` API, we expect to receive `"acknowledged" : true` and `"shards_acknowledged" : true`. If all shards don’t acknowledge within the timeout, retry the operation until it succeeds.
6. Create a target index with `dynamic: false` on the top-level mappings so that any kind of document can be written to the index. This allows us to write untransformed documents to the index which might have fields which have been removed from the latest mappings defined by the plugin. Define `dynamic:true` mappings for the `migrationVersion` field so that we're still able to search for outdated documents that need to be transformed.
   1. Ignore errors if the target index already exists.

> 7. Reindex the source index into a the new target index. All nodes on the same version will use the same fixed index name e.g. `.kibana_7.10.0_001`. The `001` postfix isn't used by Kibana, but allows for re-indexing an index should this be required by an Elasticsearch upgrade. E.g. re-index `.kibana_7.10.0_001` into `.kibana_7.10.0_002` and point the `.kibana_7.10.0` alias to `.kibana_7.10.0_002`.

Author: There is a risk of lost deletes here.

1. Two instances start the migration
2. Instance (1) finishes the migration
3 Instance (2) is still busy with a reindex
4. Instance (1) deletes a document (and acknowledges the delete to the client)
5. Instance (2)'s reindex operation re-creates the deleted document 💣 💥

Author: Solved with reindex + clone

10. Update the mappings of the target index
   1. Retrieve the existing mappings including the `migrationMappingPropertyHashes` metadata.
   2. Update the mappings with `PUT /.kibana_7.10.0_001/_mapping`. The API deeply merges any updates so this won't remove the mappings of any plugins that are disabled on this instance but have been enabled on another instance that also migrated this index.
   3. Ensure that fields are correctly indexed using the target index's latest mappings `POST /.kibana_7.10.0_001/_update_by_query?conflicts=proceed`. In the future we could optimize this query by only targeting documents:
      1. That belong to a known saved object type.
11.  Mark the migration as complete. This is done as a single atomic
    operation (requires https://github.com/elastic/elasticsearch/pull/58100)
    to guarantee that when multiple versions of Kibana are performing the
    migration in parallel, only one version will win. E.g. if 7.11 and 7.12
    are started in parallel and migrate from a 7.9 index, either 7.11 or 7.12
    should succeed and accept writes, but not both.

>    1. Checks that `.kibana` alias is still pointing to the source index
>    2. Points the `.kibana_7.10.0` and `.kibana` aliases to the target index.
>    3. Removes the temporary index `.kibana_7.10.0_reindex_temp`

Reviewer: nit: changing the grammar here to actions rather than descriptions to be consistent with the rest of the RFC
```suggestion
   1. Check that `.kibana` alias is still pointing to the source index
   2. Point the `.kibana_7.10.0` and `.kibana` aliases to the target index.
   3. Remove the temporary index `.kibana_7.10.0_reindex_temp`
```

   4. If this fails with a "required alias [.kibana] does not exist" error or "index_not_found_exception" for the temporary index, fetch `.kibana` again:
      1. If `.kibana` is _not_ pointing to our target index fail the migration.

>       2. If `.kibana` is pointing to our target index the migration has succeeded and we can proceed to step (10).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      2. If `.kibana` is pointing to our target index the migration has succeeded and we can proceed to step (12).
```

8. Transform documents by reading batches of outdated documents from the target index then transforming and updating them with optimistic concurrency control. 
   1. Ignore any version conflict errors.
   2. If a document transform throws an exception, add the document to a failure list and continue trying to transform all other documents. If any failures occured, log the complete list of documents that failed to transform. Fail the migration.
9.  Mark the migration as complete. This is done as a single atomic operation
    (requires https://github.com/elastic/elasticsearch/pull/58100) to
    guarantee when multiple versions of Kibana are performing the migration in
    parallel, only one version will win. E.g. if 7.11 and 7.12 are started in
    parallel and migrate from a 7.9 index, either 7.11 or 7.12 should succeed

>     and accept writes, but not both.

Author: I just fixed a grammar mistake `guarantees` -> `guarantee` 🤓 no real changes here
